add ext-authz blog (#8890)
istio/istio.io: content/en/blog/2021/better-external-authz/index.md

---
title: Better External Authorization
subtitle: Integrate external authorization system (e.g. OPA, oauth2-proxy, etc.) with Istio using AuthorizationPolicy
description: AuthorizationPolicy now supports CUSTOM action to delegate the authorization to external system.
publishdate: 2021-02-09

> attribution: Yangmin Zhu (Google), Craig Box (Google) and Christian Posta (Solo.io)

Reviewer: I'd be happy with a "Thanks to Craig Box and Christian Posta for reviewing drafts of this blog" at the end.  I don't feel I deserve attribution.  @christian-posta thoughts?

keywords: [authorization,access control,opa,oauth2]
---

## Background

Istio's authorization policy provides access control for services in the mesh. It is fast, powerful and a widely used

> feature. We have made continuous improvements to make it more flexible since its first release in Istio 1.4, including

Reviewer: ```suggestion
feature. We have made continuous improvements to make policy more flexible since its first release in Istio 1.4, including
```

> the DENY action, exclusion semantics, the X-Forwarded-For header support, nested JWT claim support and more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `DENY` action, exclusion semantics, `X-Forwarded-For` header support, nested JWT claim support and more.
```

These features improve the flexibility of the authorization policy, but there are still many use cases cannot be supported
with this model, for example:

> - You have your own in-house authorization system that cannot be easily migrated to, or replaced by, the authorization
>   policy;
> 
> - You want to integrate with a 3rd-party or industry standard solution (e.g. [Open Policy Agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/envoy-authorization/)
>   or [`oauth2` proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy)) which may require use of the
>   [low-level Envoy configuration APIs](/docs/reference/config/networking/envoy-filter/) in Istio, or may not be possible
>   at all;
> 
> - The authorization policy just lacks some semantics for your use cases;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- You have your own in-house authorization system that cannot be easily migrated to, or replaced by, the authorization
  policy

- You want to integrate with a 3rd-party or industry standard solution (e.g. [Open Policy Agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/envoy-authorization/)
  or [`oauth2` proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy)) which may require use of the
  [low-level Envoy configuration APIs](/docs/reference/config/networking/envoy-filter/) in Istio, or may not be possible
  at all

- Authorization policy lacks necessary semantics for your use case
```

## Solution

In Istio 1.9, we have implemented extensibility into authorization policy by introducing a [`CUSTOM` action](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/b24ca4b76fdb51e227baf508c6d884eb8bcb51f5/security/v1beta1/authorization_policy.proto#L296),
which allows you to delegate the access control decision to an external authorization service.

The `CUSTOM` action allows to integrate Istio with an external authorization system that implements its own custom
authorization logic. The following diagram shows the high level architecture of this integration:

{{< image width="100%" link="./external_authz.svg" caption="External Authorization Architecture" >}}

> In configuration time, the user (e.g. mesh admin) configures the authorization policy with `CUSTOM` action to enable the
> external authorization on a proxy (either gateway or sidecar). The user should make sure the external auth service is up
> and running.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At configuration time, the mesh admin configures an authorization policy with a `CUSTOM` action to enable the
external authorization on a proxy (either gateway or sidecar). The admin should make sure the external auth service is up
and running.
```

How do you make sure the auth service is up and running, and what happens if it is not?

Author: The user could send some test requests to their auth service to check if it is ready. If not, the authorization policy will fallback to always deny the request.

> In runtime,
> 
> 1. A request to the proxy will be paused, and the proxy will send a check request to the external auth service as
>    configured by the user in the authorization policy;
> 
> 1. The external auth service will check the request and make the decision whether to allow it or not;
> 
> 1. If allowed, the request will continue and still be enforced by the local authorization defined by ALLOW/DENY action.
> 
> 1. If denied, the request will be rejected immediately.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At runtime,

1. A request to the proxy will be paused, and the proxy will send a check request to the external auth service, as
   configured by the user in the authorization policy

1. The external auth service will check the request and make the decision whether to allow it or not

  1. If allowed, the request will continue and will be enforced by any local authorization defined by `ALLOW`/`DENY` action

  1. If denied, the request will be rejected immediately.
```

> The following is an example authorization policy with `CUSTOM` action:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's look at an example authorization policy with the `CUSTOM` action:
```

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: ext-authz
  namespace: istio-system
spec:
  # The selector applies to the ingress gateway in the istio-system namespace.
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: istio-ingressgateway
  # The action "CUSTOM" delegates the access control to an external authorizer, this is different from
  # the ALLOW/DENY action that enforces the access control right inside the proxy.
  action: CUSTOM
  # The provider specifies the name of the external authorizer defined in the meshconfig, which tells where and how to
  # talk to the external auth service. We will cover this more later.
  provider:
    name: "my-ext-authz-service"
  # The rule specifies that the access control is triggered only if the request path has the prefix "/admin".
  # This allows you to easily enable or disable the external authorization based on the requests, avoiding the external
  # check request if it is not needed.
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        paths: ["/admin/*"]
{{< /text >}}

> The following is a snippet of the mesh config showing an example of the provider `my-ext-authz-service` definition:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It refers to a provider called `my-ext-authz-service` which is defined in the mesh config:
```

{{< text yaml >}}
extensionProviders:
# The name "my-ext-authz-service" is referred to by the authorization policy in its provider field.
- name: "my-ext-authz-service"
  # The "envoyExtAuthzGrpc" field specifies the type of the external authorization service is implemented by the Envoy
  # ext-authz filter gRPC API. The other supported type is the Envoy ext-authz filter HTTP API.
  # See more in https://www.envoyproxy.io/docs/envoy/v1.16.2/intro/arch_overview/security/ext_authz_filter.
  envoyExtAuthzGrpc:
    # The service and port specifies the address of the external auth service, "ext-authz.istio-system.svc.cluster.local"
    # means the service is deployed in the mesh. It can also be defined out of the mesh or even inside the pod as a separate
    # container.
    service: "ext-authz.istio-system.svc.cluster.local"
    port: 9000
{{< /text >}}

## Key Features

> The authorization policy of [`CUSTOM` action](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/b24ca4b76fdb51e227baf508c6d884eb8bcb51f5/security/v1beta1/authorization_policy.proto#L296)

Reviewer: is this link correct when 1.9 is out?  (Same question on line 106 below)

Author: yes it points to the latest API that is shipped with 1.9.

Reviewer: I meant, the URL is

`https://github.com/istio/api/blob/b24ca4b76fdb51e227baf508c6d884eb8bcb51f5/security/v1beta1/authorization_policy.proto#L296`

Should `b24ca4b76fdb51e227baf508c6d884eb8bcb51f5` be a tag or 'master' at the time of publication?

Author: I just updated to link to the istio.io reference page, so no need to include the tag or master at all.

enables the external authorization in runtime, it could be configured to trigger the external authorization conditionally
based on the request using the same rule that you have already been using with other actions.

The external authorization service is currently defined in the [`meshconfig` API](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/b24ca4b76fdb51e227baf508c6d884eb8bcb51f5/mesh/v1alpha1/config.proto#L534)
and referred to by its name. It could be deployed in the mesh with or without proxy. If with the proxy, you could
further use `PeerAuthentication` to enable mTLS between the proxy and your external authorization service.

> The `CUSTOM` action is currently in the **experimental stage**, the API might change in a non-backward compatible way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `CUSTOM` action is currently in the **experimental stage**; the API might change in a non-backward compatible way based on user feedback.
```

The rule currently does not support authentication related fields (e.g. source principal or JWT claim) and only one
provider is allowed for a given workload, but you can still use different providers on different workloads.

For more information, please see the [Better External Authorization design doc](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1V4mCQCw7mlGp0zSQQXYoBdbKMDnkPOjeyUb85U07iSI/edit#).

## Example with OPA

> In this section, we will demonstrate using the CUSTOM action with the Open Policy Agent as the external authorizer on

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this section, we will demonstrate using the `CUSTOM` action with the Open Policy Agent as the external authorizer on
```

        - name: opa-policy
          secret:
            secretName: opa-policy
EOF
{{< /text >}}

Deploy the httpbin as well:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f @samples/httpbin/httpbin.yaml@
{{< /text >}}

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabset >}}

### Define external authorizer

Run the following command to edit the `meshconfig`:

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl edit configmap istio -n istio-system
{{< /text >}}

Add the following `extensionProviders` to the `meshconfig`:

{{< tabset category-name="opa-deploy" >}}

{{< tab name="Deploy OPA in the same pod" category-value="opa-same" >}}

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: v1
data:
  mesh: |-
    # Add the following contents:
    extensionProviders:
    - name: "opa.local"
      envoyExtAuthzGrpc:
        service: "local-opa-grpc.local"
        port: "9191"
{{< /text >}}

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="Deploy OPA in a separate pod" category-value="opa-standalone" >}}

{{< text yaml >}}
apiVersion: v1
data:
  mesh: |-
    # Add the following contents:
    extensionProviders:
    - name: "opa.default"
      envoyExtAuthzGrpc:
        service: "opa.default.svc.cluster.local"
        port: "9191"
{{< /text >}}

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabset >}}

> ### Create AuthorizationPolicy with CUSTOM action

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Create an AuthorizationPolicy with a CUSTOM action
```

Run the following command to create the authorization policy that enables the external authorization on all paths
except `/ip`:

{{< tabset category-name="opa-deploy" >}}

{{< tab name="Deploy OPA in the same pod" category-value="opa-same" >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: httpbin-opa
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: httpbin-with-opa
  action: CUSTOM
  provider:
    name: "opa.local"
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        notPaths: ["/ip"]
EOF
{{< /text >}}

{{< /tab >}}

{{< tab name="Deploy OPA in a separate pod" category-value="opa-standalone" >}}

{{< text bash >}}
$ kubectl apply -f - <<EOF
apiVersion: security.istio.io/v1beta1
kind: AuthorizationPolicy
metadata:
  name: httpbin-opa
spec:
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: httpbin
  action: CUSTOM
  provider:
    name: "opa.default"
  rules:
  - to:
    - operation:
        notPaths: ["/ip"]
EOF
{{< /text >}}

{{< /tab >}}

{{< /tabset >}}

### Test the OPA policy

> 1. Create the sleep pod to send the request:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create a client pod to send the request:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl apply -f @samples/sleep/sleep.yaml@
    $ export SLEEP_POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=sleep -o jsonpath={.items..metadata.name})
    {{< /text >}}

1. Use a test JWT token signed by the OPA:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ export TOKEN_PATH_HEADERS="eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJwYXRoIjoiTDJobFlXUmxjbk09IiwibmJmIjoxNTAwMDAwMDAwLCJleHAiOjE5MDAwMDAwMDB9.9yl8LcZdq-5UpNLm0Hn0nnoBHXXAnK4e8RSl9vn6l98"
    {{< /text >}}

    The test JWT token has the following claims:

    {{< text json >}}
    {
      "path": "L2hlYWRlcnM=",
      "nbf": 1500000000,
      "exp": 1900000000
    }
    {{< /text >}}

    The `path` claim has value `L2hlYWRlcnM=` which is the base64 encode of `/headers`.

> 1. Send request to path `/headers` without token, should be rejected with 403 because there is no JWT token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Send a request to path `/headers` without a token. This should be rejected with 403 because there is no JWT token:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec ${SLEEP_POD} -c sleep  -- curl http://httpbin-with-opa:8000/headers -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    403
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Send request to path `/get` with valid token, should be rejected with 403 because the path `/get` is not matched with the token `/headers`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Send a request to path `/get` with a valid token. This should be rejected with 403 because the path `/get` is not matched with the token `/headers`:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec ${SLEEP_POD} -c sleep  -- curl http://httpbin-with-opa:8000/get -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN_PATH_HEADERS" -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    403
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Send request to path `/headers` with valid token, should be allowed with 200 because the path is matched with the token:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Send a request to path `/headers` with valid token. This should be allowed with 200 because the path is matched with the token:
```

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec ${SLEEP_POD} -c sleep  -- curl http://httpbin-with-opa:8000/headers -H "Authorization: Bearer $TOKEN_PATH_HEADERS" -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    200
    {{< /text >}}

> 1. Send request to path `/ip` without token, should be allowed with 200 because the path `/ip` is excluded from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Send request to path `/ip` without token. This should be allowed with 200 because the path `/ip` is excluded from
```

   authorization:

    {{< text bash >}}
    $ kubectl exec ${SLEEP_POD} -c sleep  -- curl http://httpbin-with-opa:8000/ip -s -o /dev/null -w "%{http_code}\n"
    200
    {{< /text >}}

1. Check the proxy and OPA logs to confirm the result.

## Summary

> In Istio 1.9, The CUSTOM action in the authorization policy allows to easily integrate Istio with any external

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Istio 1.9, the `CUSTOM` action in the authorization policy allows you to easily integrate Istio with any external
```

authorization system with the following benefits:

> - First-class support in the authorization policy API;
> 
> - Ease of usage, define the external authorizer simply with a URL and enable with the authorization policy, no more
>   hassle with the `EnvoyFilter` API;
> 
> - Conditionally triggering allows improved performance;
> 
> - Supports various deployment type of the external authorizer:
> 
>     - A normal service and pod with or without proxy;
> 
>     - Inside the workload pod as a separate container;
> 
>     - out of the mesh;

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- First-class support in the authorization policy API

- Ease of usage: define the external authorizer simply with a URL and enable with the authorization policy, no more
  hassle with the `EnvoyFilter` API

- Conditional triggering,  allowing improved performance

- Support for various deployment type of the external authorizer:

    - A normal service and pod with or without proxy

    - Inside the workload pod as a separate container

    - Outside the mesh
```

---
title: Better External Authorization
subtitle: Integrate external authorization system (e.g. OPA, oauth2-proxy, etc.) with Istio using AuthorizationPolicy
description: AuthorizationPolicy now supports CUSTOM action to delegate the authorization to external system.
publishdate: 2021-02-09
attribution: Yangmin Zhu (Google)
keywords: [authorization,access control,opa,oauth2]
---

## Background

Istio's authorization policy provides access control for services in the mesh. It is fast, powerful and a widely used
feature. We have made continuous improvements to make policy more flexible since its first release in Istio 1.4, including
the `DENY` action, exclusion semantics, `X-Forwarded-For` header support, nested JWT claim support and more.

> These features improve the flexibility of the authorization policy, but there are still many use cases cannot be supported

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These features improve the flexibility of the authorization policy, but there are still many use cases that cannot be supported
```

with this model, for example:

- You have your own in-house authorization system that cannot be easily migrated to, or replaced by, the authorization
  policy

- You want to integrate with a 3rd-party or industry standard solution (e.g. [Open Policy Agent](https://www.openpolicyagent.org/docs/latest/envoy-authorization/)
  or [`oauth2` proxy](https://github.com/oauth2-proxy/oauth2-proxy)) which may require use of the
  [low-level Envoy configuration APIs](/docs/reference/config/networking/envoy-filter/) in Istio, or may not be possible
  at all

- Authorization policy lacks necessary semantics for your use case

## Solution

In Istio 1.9, we have implemented extensibility into authorization policy by introducing a [`CUSTOM` action](https://github.com/istio/api/blob/b24ca4b76fdb51e227baf508c6d884eb8bcb51f5/security/v1beta1/authorization_policy.proto#L296),
which allows you to delegate the access control decision to an external authorization service.

> The `CUSTOM` action allows to integrate Istio with an external authorization system that implements its own custom

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `CUSTOM` action allows you to integrate Istio with an external authorization system that implements its own custom
```

authorization logic. The following diagram shows the high level architecture of this integration:

{{< image width="100%" link="./external_authz.svg" caption="External Authorization Architecture" >}}

At configuration time, the mesh admin configures an authorization policy with a `CUSTOM` action to enable the

> external authorization on a proxy (either gateway or sidecar). The admin should make sure the external auth service is up

Reviewer: ```suggestion
external authorization on a proxy (either gateway or sidecar). The admin should verify the external auth service is up
```

We're working to promote this feature to a more stable stage in following versions and welcome your feedback at
[discuss.istio.io](https://discuss.istio.io/c/security/).

> Thanks to `Craig Box`, `Christian Posta` and `Limin Wang` for reviewing drafts of this blog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_Thanks to Craig Box, Christian Posta and Limin Wang for reviewing drafts of this blog._
```

(hopefully that doesn't break spelling checker)

Author: I tried but it sill breaks the spelling checker, so reverted to use `.
